docs/docs/refs-and-the-dom.md, before:

---
id: refs-and-the-dom
title: Refs and the DOM
redirect_from:
  - "docs/working-with-the-browser.html"
  - "docs/more-about-refs.html"
  - "docs/more-about-refs-ko-KR.html"
  - "docs/more-about-refs-zh-CN.html"
  - "tips/expose-component-functions.html"
  - "tips/children-undefined.html"
permalink: docs/refs-and-the-dom.html
---

In the typical React dataflow, [props](/react/docs/components-and-props.html) are the only way that parent components interact with their children. To modify a child, you re-render it with new props. However, there are a few cases where you need to imperatively modify a child outside of the typical dataflow. The child to be modified could be an instance of a React component, or it could be a DOM element. For both of these cases, React provides an escape hatch.

## The ref Callback Attribute

React supports a special attribute that you can attach to any component. The `ref` attribute takes a callback function, and the callback will be executed immediately after the component is mounted or unmounted.

When the `ref` attribute is used on an HTML element, the `ref` callback receives the underlying DOM element as its argument. For example, this code uses the `ref` callback to store a reference to a DOM node:

```javascript{8,9,19}
class CustomTextInput extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.focus = this.focus.bind(this);
  }

  focus() {
    // Explicitly focus the text input using the raw DOM API
    this.textInput.focus();
  }

  render() {
    // Use the `ref` callback to store a reference to the text input DOM
    // element in this.textInput.
    return (
      <div>
        <input
          type="text"
          ref={(input) => { this.textInput = input; }} />
        <input
          type="button"
          value="Focus the text input"
          onClick={this.focus}
        />
      </div>
    );
  }
}
```

React will call the `ref` callback with the DOM element when the component mounts, and call it with `null` when it unmounts.

Using the `ref` callback just to set a property on the class is a common pattern for accessing DOM elements. If you are currently using `this.refs.myRefName` to access refs, we recommend using this pattern instead.

When the `ref` attribute is used on a custom component, the `ref` callback receives the mounted instance of the component as its argument. For example, if we wanted to wrap the `CustomTextInput` above to simulate it being clicked immediately after mounting:

```javascript{3,9}
class AutoFocusTextInput extends React.Component {
  componentDidMount() {
    this.textInput.focus();
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <CustomTextInput
        ref={(input) => { this.textInput = input; }} />
    );
  }
}
```

You may not use the `ref` attribute on functional components because they don't have instances. You can, however, use the `ref` attribute inside the `render` function of a functional component:

```javascript{2,3,6,13}
function CustomTextInput(props) {
  // textInput must be declared here so the ref callback can refer to it
  let textInput = null;

  function handleClick() {
    textInput.focus();
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <input
        type="text"
        ref={(input) => { textInput = input; }} />
      <input
        type="button"
        value="Focus the text input"
        onClick={handleClick}
      />
    </div>
  );  
}
```

### Don't Overuse Refs

Your first inclination may be to use refs to "make things happen" in your app. If this is the case, take a moment and think more critically about where state should be owned in the component hierarchy. Often, it becomes clear that the proper place to "own" that state is at a higher level in the hierarchy. See the [Lifting State Up](/react/docs/lifting-state-up.html) guide for examples of this.

Commit message:

Added more info about refs in the documentation (#8707)
* Update refs-and-the-dom.md

I want to propose some changes to the Refs and the DOM documentation page.
- Make it clear that string refs are legacy. It seems that this information got lost during the transition to new docs and only some part stayed the same, which was confusing when first reading the docs.
- Clarify and explain that during render, if the ref callback is provided, it will get called twice, first with `null` and then with the rendered DOM element. Discussed in https://github.com/facebook/react/issues/4533 and first proposed docs change in PR #8333.

I've also planned on adding an example for passing the refs up the component chain based on something I've needed to solve myself (e.g. you want to connect two dynamic components by line in React, so you need to both use refs and propagate them up the chain), and while it would be great to read up on this in the docs, it may be too specific for this section; I'd be happy to hear any recommendations.

* Adds more specific information about the callback

* Moved the ref callback description to the Caveats section

* Fixed suggested nits

* Replace 'each render pass' with 'updates'

* Tweak the wording

(cherry picked from commit 4a7e06bab7d53f919b96f1aa5209afa4c63bfebb)

docs/docs/refs-and-the-dom.md, after:

---
id: refs-and-the-dom
title: Refs and the DOM
redirect_from:
  - "docs/working-with-the-browser.html"
  - "docs/more-about-refs.html"
  - "docs/more-about-refs-ko-KR.html"
  - "docs/more-about-refs-zh-CN.html"
  - "tips/expose-component-functions.html"
  - "tips/children-undefined.html"
permalink: docs/refs-and-the-dom.html
---

In the typical React dataflow, [props](/react/docs/components-and-props.html) are the only way that parent components interact with their children. To modify a child, you re-render it with new props. However, there are a few cases where you need to imperatively modify a child outside of the typical dataflow. The child to be modified could be an instance of a React component, or it could be a DOM element. For both of these cases, React provides an escape hatch.

## The ref Callback Attribute

React supports a special attribute that you can attach to any component. The `ref` attribute takes a callback function, and the callback will be executed immediately after the component is mounted or unmounted.

When the `ref` attribute is used on an HTML element, the `ref` callback receives the underlying DOM element as its argument. For example, this code uses the `ref` callback to store a reference to a DOM node:

```javascript{8,9,19}
class CustomTextInput extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.focus = this.focus.bind(this);
  }

  focus() {
    // Explicitly focus the text input using the raw DOM API
    this.textInput.focus();
  }

  render() {
    // Use the `ref` callback to store a reference to the text input DOM
    // element in this.textInput.
    return (
      <div>
        <input
          type="text"
          ref={(input) => { this.textInput = input; }} />
        <input
          type="button"
          value="Focus the text input"
          onClick={this.focus}
        />
      </div>
    );
  }
}
```

React will call the `ref` callback with the DOM element when the component mounts, and call it with `null` when it unmounts.

Using the `ref` callback just to set a property on the class is a common pattern for accessing DOM elements. The preferred way is to set the property in the `ref` callback like in the above example. There is even a shorter way to write it: `ref={input => this.textInput = input}`. 

If you worked with React before, you might be familiar with an older API where the `ref` attribute is a string, like `"textInput"`, and the DOM node is accessed as `this.refs.textInput`. We advise against it because string refs have [some issues](https://github.com/facebook/react/pull/8333#issuecomment-271648615), are considered legacy, and **are likely to be removed in one of the future releases**. If you're currently using `this.refs.textInput` to access refs, we recommend the callback pattern instead.

When the `ref` attribute is used on a custom component, the `ref` callback receives the mounted instance of the component as its argument. For example, if we wanted to wrap the `CustomTextInput` above to simulate it being clicked immediately after mounting:

```javascript{3,9}
class AutoFocusTextInput extends React.Component {
  componentDidMount() {
    this.textInput.focus();
  }

  render() {
    return (
      <CustomTextInput
        ref={(input) => { this.textInput = input; }} />
    );
  }
}
```

You may not use the `ref` attribute on functional components because they don't have instances. You can, however, use the `ref` attribute inside the `render` function of a functional component:

```javascript{2,3,6,13}
function CustomTextInput(props) {
  // textInput must be declared here so the ref callback can refer to it
  let textInput = null;

  function handleClick() {
    textInput.focus();
  }

  return (
    <div>
      <input
        type="text"
        ref={(input) => { textInput = input; }} />
      <input
        type="button"
        value="Focus the text input"
        onClick={handleClick}
      />
    </div>
  );  
}
```

### Don't Overuse Refs

Your first inclination may be to use refs to "make things happen" in your app. If this is the case, take a moment and think more critically about where state should be owned in the component hierarchy. Often, it becomes clear that the proper place to "own" that state is at a higher level in the hierarchy. See the [Lifting State Up](/react/docs/lifting-state-up.html) guide for examples of this.

### Caveats

If the `ref` callback is defined as an inline function, it will get called twice during updates, first with `null` and then again with the DOM element. This is because a new instance of the function is created with each render, so React needs to clear the old ref and set up the new one. You can avoid this by defining the `ref` callback as a bound method on the class, but note that it shouldn't matter in most cases.
